README-DEPLOY.md, before:

# higlass-docker: Deployment

First, install [aws-cli](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/) and 
[add your credentials](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-getting-started.html#cli-quick-configuration).
(For more help with this, see the [AWS documentation](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/tutorial-ec2-ubuntu.html).)

Then, create your security group and key pair:
```bash
NAME=higlass-docker
GROUP_NAME=${NAME}-group
aws ec2 create-security-group --group-name $GROUP_NAME --description $NAME
aws ec2 authorize-security-group-ingress --group-name $GROUP_NAME --protocol tcp --port 22 --cidr 0.0.0.0/0
aws ec2 authorize-security-group-ingress --group-name $GROUP_NAME --protocol tcp --port 80 --cidr 0.0.0.0/0
KEY_NAME=${NAME}-key
aws ec2 create-key-pair --key-name $KEY_NAME --query 'KeyMaterial' --output text > ~/$KEY_NAME.pem
chmod 400 ~/$KEY_NAME.pem
```

Then, create an EC2 instance, and connect:
```bash
GROUP_ID=`aws ec2 describe-security-groups --group-names $GROUP_NAME --query 'SecurityGroups[0].GroupId' --output text`
INSTANCE_ID=`aws ec2 run-instances --image-id ami-29ebb519 --security-group-ids $GROUP_ID --count 1 --instance-type t2.micro --key-name $KEY_NAME --query 'Instances[0].InstanceId' --output text`
# Wait until it's "running":
aws ec2 describe-instances --instance-ids $INSTANCE_ID --query 'Reservations[0].Instances[0].State.Name' --output text
# and then:
IP=`aws ec2 describe-instances --instance-ids $INSTANCE_ID --query 'Reservations[0].Instances[0].PublicIpAddress' --output text`
ssh -i ~/$KEY_NAME.pem ubuntu@$IP
```

Once you've connected, install docker as you would locally.
(For more help with these steps, see the
[Docker docs](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/linux/ubuntu/).)

SSH in, and then get the file system tools Docker needs:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y curl \
    linux-image-extra-$(uname -r) \
    linux-image-extra-virtual
```
Add the Docker repo to apt-get:
```
sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https \
                       ca-certificates
curl -fsSL https://yum.dockerproject.org/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
# Verify the fingerprint:
apt-key finger | grep -A1 '5811 8E89 F3A9 1289 7C07  0ADB F762 2157 2C52 609D'
sudo add-apt-repository \
       "deb https://apt.dockerproject.org/repo/ \
       ubuntu-$(lsb_release -cs) \
       main"
```
And install docker itself:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get -y install docker-engine
sudo docker run --detach --publish 80:80 gehlenborglab/higlass-server
```

When you're done with the instance, clean up:
```
aws ec2 terminate-instances --instance-id $INSTANCE_ID
# Wait while instance terminates, and then
aws ec2 delete-security-group --group-id $GROUP_ID
aws ec2 delete-key-pair --key-name $KEY_NAME
rm ~/$KEY_NAME.pem
```

Commit message:

Mccalluc/build opts (#50)
* Port may be set

* Volume arg

* Update the docs / hopefully fix tests

README-DEPLOY.md, after:

# higlass-docker: Deployment

First, install [aws-cli](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/) and 
[add your credentials](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-getting-started.html#cli-quick-configuration).
(For more help with this, see the [AWS documentation](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/tutorial-ec2-ubuntu.html).)

Then, create your security group and key pair:
```bash
NAME=higlass-docker
GROUP_NAME=${NAME}-group
aws ec2 create-security-group --group-name $GROUP_NAME --description $NAME
aws ec2 authorize-security-group-ingress --group-name $GROUP_NAME --protocol tcp --port 22 --cidr 0.0.0.0/0
aws ec2 authorize-security-group-ingress --group-name $GROUP_NAME --protocol tcp --port 80 --cidr 0.0.0.0/0
KEY_NAME=${NAME}-key
aws ec2 create-key-pair --key-name $KEY_NAME --query 'KeyMaterial' --output text > ~/$KEY_NAME.pem
chmod 400 ~/$KEY_NAME.pem
```

Then, create an EC2 instance, and connect:
```bash
GROUP_ID=`aws ec2 describe-security-groups --group-names $GROUP_NAME --query 'SecurityGroups[0].GroupId' --output text`
INSTANCE_ID=`aws ec2 run-instances --image-id ami-29ebb519 --security-group-ids $GROUP_ID --count 1 --instance-type t2.micro --key-name $KEY_NAME --query 'Instances[0].InstanceId' --output text`
# Wait until it's "running":
aws ec2 describe-instances --instance-ids $INSTANCE_ID --query 'Reservations[0].Instances[0].State.Name' --output text
# and then:
IP=`aws ec2 describe-instances --instance-ids $INSTANCE_ID --query 'Reservations[0].Instances[0].PublicIpAddress' --output text`
ssh -i ~/$KEY_NAME.pem ubuntu@$IP
```

Once you've connected, install docker as you would locally.
(For more help with these steps, see the
[Docker docs](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/linux/ubuntu/).)

SSH in, and then get the file system tools Docker needs:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y curl \
    linux-image-extra-$(uname -r) \
    linux-image-extra-virtual
```
Add the Docker repo to apt-get:
```
sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https \
                       ca-certificates
curl -fsSL https://yum.dockerproject.org/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
# Verify the fingerprint:
apt-key finger | grep -A1 '5811 8E89 F3A9 1289 7C07  0ADB F762 2157 2C52 609D'
sudo add-apt-repository \
       "deb https://apt.dockerproject.org/repo/ \
       ubuntu-$(lsb_release -cs) \
       main"
```
And install docker itself:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get -y install docker-engine
```

Finally, call our script to setup all the containers.
```
git clone https://github.com/hms-dbmi/higlass-docker.git
cd higlass-docker
./build.sh -p80 -v/choose/a/directory/for/data
```

When you're done with the instance, clean up:
```
aws ec2 terminate-instances --instance-id $INSTANCE_ID
# Wait while instance terminates, and then
aws ec2 delete-security-group --group-id $GROUP_ID
aws ec2 delete-key-pair --key-name $KEY_NAME
rm ~/$KEY_NAME.pem
```
