README.md, before:

# higlass-docker

Builds a docker container wrapping higlass-client and higlass-server in nginx,
tests that it works, and if there are no errors in the PR, pushes the image to 
[DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/gehlenborglab/higlass-server/).

## Running locally

You can see HiGlass in action at [higlass.gehlenborglab.org](http://higlass.gehlenborglab.org/).

It is also easy to launch your own. Install Docker, and then:
```
docker run --detach --publish 8888:80 gehlenborglab/higlass-server
```

Then visit [localhost:8888](http://localhost:8888/) in your browser.


## Running on AWS

First, install [aws-cli](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/) and 
[add your credentials](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-getting-started.html#cli-quick-configuration).
(For more help with this, see the [AWS documentation](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/tutorial-ec2-ubuntu.html).)

Then, create your security group and key pair:
```bash
NAME=higlass-docker
GROUP_NAME=${NAME}-group
aws ec2 create-security-group --group-name $GROUP_NAME --description $NAME
aws ec2 authorize-security-group-ingress --group-name $GROUP_NAME --protocol tcp --port 22 --cidr 0.0.0.0/0
aws ec2 authorize-security-group-ingress --group-name $GROUP_NAME --protocol tcp --port 80 --cidr 0.0.0.0/0
KEY_NAME=${NAME}-key
aws ec2 create-key-pair --key-name $KEY_NAME --query 'KeyMaterial' --output text > ~/$KEY_NAME.pem
chmod 400 ~/$KEY_NAME.pem
```

Then, create an EC2 instance, and connect:
```bash
GROUP_ID=`aws ec2 describe-security-groups --group-names $GROUP_NAME --query 'SecurityGroups[0].GroupId' --output text`
INSTANCE_ID=`aws ec2 run-instances --image-id ami-29ebb519 --security-group-ids $GROUP_ID --count 1 --instance-type t2.micro --key-name $KEY_NAME --query 'Instances[0].InstanceId' --output text`
# Wait until it's "running":
aws ec2 describe-instances --instance-ids $INSTANCE_ID --query 'Reservations[0].Instances[0].State.Name' --output text
# and then:
IP=`aws ec2 describe-instances --instance-ids $INSTANCE_ID --query 'Reservations[0].Instances[0].PublicIpAddress' --output text`
ssh -i ~/$KEY_NAME.pem ubuntu@$IP
```

Once you've connected, install docker as you would locally.
(For more help with these steps, see the
[Docker docs](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/linux/ubuntu/).)

SSH in, and then get the file system tools Docker needs:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y curl \
    linux-image-extra-$(uname -r) \
    linux-image-extra-virtual
```
Add the Docker repo to apt-get:
```
sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https \
                       ca-certificates
curl -fsSL https://yum.dockerproject.org/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
# Verify the fingerprint:
apt-key finger | grep -A1 '5811 8E89 F3A9 1289 7C07  0ADB F762 2157 2C52 609D'
sudo add-apt-repository \
       "deb https://apt.dockerproject.org/repo/ \
       ubuntu-$(lsb_release -cs) \
       main"
```
And install docker itself:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get -y install docker-engine
sudo docker run --detach --publish 80:80 gehlenborglab/higlass-server
```

When you're done with the instance, clean up:
```
aws ec2 terminate-instances --instance-id $INSTANCE_ID
# Wait while instance terminates, and then
aws ec2 delete-security-group --group-id $GROUP_ID
aws ec2 delete-key-pair --key-name $KEY_NAME
rm ~/$KEY_NAME.pem
```



## Developing

To develop [higlass-client](https://github.com/hms-dbmi/higlass) and
[higlass-server](https://github.com/hms-dbmi/higlass-server),
check out the corresponding repos. 

To work on the Docker deployment, checkout this repo, install Docker, and then:

```bash
# build:
docker build --tag higlass-image context

# run:
#   Port 80 is what nginx communicates on within the docker container
#   Port 8888 is what it should be mapped to on the host.
docker run --name higlass-container --detach --publish 8888:80 higlass-image

# test:
curl http://localhost:8888/

# If that doesn't work, check the port mapping:
docker ps

# and then check the logs
docker logs higlass-container

# or connect to an already running container:
docker exec --interactive --tty higlass-container bash

# remove all containers (use with caution):
docker ps -a -q | xargs docker stop | xargs docker rm
```


## Releasing updates

Travis will push an image to DockerHub on every successful PR run,
and will additionally push tags with the GitHub hash and the Travis
build number, for reference.

If this PR is tagged (ie `git tag v0.0.1 && git push origin --tags`),
then that version number will also be pushed to DockerHub,
along with updating `latest`.

Commit message:

Instructions for manually updating latest

README.md, after:

# higlass-docker

Builds a docker container wrapping higlass-client and higlass-server in nginx,
tests that it works, and if there are no errors in the PR, pushes the image to 
[DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/gehlenborglab/higlass-server/).

## Running locally

You can see HiGlass in action at [higlass.gehlenborglab.org](http://higlass.gehlenborglab.org/).

It is also easy to launch your own. Install Docker, and then:
```
docker run --detach --publish 8888:80 gehlenborglab/higlass-server
```

Then visit [localhost:8888](http://localhost:8888/) in your browser.


## Running on AWS

First, install [aws-cli](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/) and 
[add your credentials](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-getting-started.html#cli-quick-configuration).
(For more help with this, see the [AWS documentation](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/tutorial-ec2-ubuntu.html).)

Then, create your security group and key pair:
```bash
NAME=higlass-docker
GROUP_NAME=${NAME}-group
aws ec2 create-security-group --group-name $GROUP_NAME --description $NAME
aws ec2 authorize-security-group-ingress --group-name $GROUP_NAME --protocol tcp --port 22 --cidr 0.0.0.0/0
aws ec2 authorize-security-group-ingress --group-name $GROUP_NAME --protocol tcp --port 80 --cidr 0.0.0.0/0
KEY_NAME=${NAME}-key
aws ec2 create-key-pair --key-name $KEY_NAME --query 'KeyMaterial' --output text > ~/$KEY_NAME.pem
chmod 400 ~/$KEY_NAME.pem
```

Then, create an EC2 instance, and connect:
```bash
GROUP_ID=`aws ec2 describe-security-groups --group-names $GROUP_NAME --query 'SecurityGroups[0].GroupId' --output text`
INSTANCE_ID=`aws ec2 run-instances --image-id ami-29ebb519 --security-group-ids $GROUP_ID --count 1 --instance-type t2.micro --key-name $KEY_NAME --query 'Instances[0].InstanceId' --output text`
# Wait until it's "running":
aws ec2 describe-instances --instance-ids $INSTANCE_ID --query 'Reservations[0].Instances[0].State.Name' --output text
# and then:
IP=`aws ec2 describe-instances --instance-ids $INSTANCE_ID --query 'Reservations[0].Instances[0].PublicIpAddress' --output text`
ssh -i ~/$KEY_NAME.pem ubuntu@$IP
```

Once you've connected, install docker as you would locally.
(For more help with these steps, see the
[Docker docs](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/linux/ubuntu/).)

SSH in, and then get the file system tools Docker needs:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y curl \
    linux-image-extra-$(uname -r) \
    linux-image-extra-virtual
```
Add the Docker repo to apt-get:
```
sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https \
                       ca-certificates
curl -fsSL https://yum.dockerproject.org/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
# Verify the fingerprint:
apt-key finger | grep -A1 '5811 8E89 F3A9 1289 7C07  0ADB F762 2157 2C52 609D'
sudo add-apt-repository \
       "deb https://apt.dockerproject.org/repo/ \
       ubuntu-$(lsb_release -cs) \
       main"
```
And install docker itself:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get -y install docker-engine
sudo docker run --detach --publish 80:80 gehlenborglab/higlass-server
```

When you're done with the instance, clean up:
```
aws ec2 terminate-instances --instance-id $INSTANCE_ID
# Wait while instance terminates, and then
aws ec2 delete-security-group --group-id $GROUP_ID
aws ec2 delete-key-pair --key-name $KEY_NAME
rm ~/$KEY_NAME.pem
```



## Developing

To develop [higlass-client](https://github.com/hms-dbmi/higlass) and
[higlass-server](https://github.com/hms-dbmi/higlass-server),
check out the corresponding repos. 

To work on the Docker deployment, checkout this repo, install Docker, and then:

```bash
# build:
docker build --tag higlass-image context

# run:
#   Port 80 is what nginx communicates on within the docker container
#   Port 8888 is what it should be mapped to on the host.
docker run --name higlass-container --detach --publish 8888:80 higlass-image

# test:
curl http://localhost:8888/

# If that doesn't work, check the port mapping:
docker ps

# and then check the logs
docker logs higlass-container

# or connect to an already running container:
docker exec --interactive --tty higlass-container bash

# remove all containers (use with caution):
docker ps -a -q | xargs docker stop | xargs docker rm
```


## Releasing updates

Travis will push an image to DockerHub on every successful PR run
with the name of the branch.

If this PR is tagged (ie `git tag v0.0.x && git push origin --tags`),
then that version number will also be pushed to DockerHub.

If you want to update `latest`:
```
docker pull gehlenborglab/higlass-server:v0-0-x
docker tag gehlenborglab/higlass-server:v0-0-x  gehlenborglab/higlass-server:latest
docker push gehlenborglab/higlass-server:latest
```
